Hi, everyone.
In this letter, we are going to implement the shuffling functionality for our Cartes.
All right, so so far, the card, the deck of cards or the memory game is completed, but there is
a big problem with that.
We know where every image exists, right?
So if we just click on them, we can and see all of them because they are nicely arranged next to each
other.
So if even if I refresh, they are going to stay in there.
That was a mouse click.
They are going to stay in their own spot.
Right.
But this is not what we want.
We want to surprise our users.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a function and we are going to call them shuffle very
generic.
Right.
And what do we want to do here now?
We want to iterate over all of our cards.
So we are going to grab our cards and we are going to say that for each and we are going to run a function.
This writing, this function here is not the optimum way of doing it.
We could use an arrow function.
But, you know, I've just used it a few times.
I do not want to, like, really, really focus on arrow functions, though.
They are a better and these sort of scenarios, they're a better choice than our regular functions era
functions.
There are new additions to ESX, JavaScript or iOS officially e 2015 edition of JavaScript.
Right.
But we are going to start using them all over the place whenever we officially study them, like in
theory.
All right.
So we need here a loop variable, which is going to be cards card.
And first off, we need to we need to come up with a way that according to that method, we can shuffle
the cards.
Now, if I go back to our success and if I come here, this is our memory game.
Right.
This is the container for a memory game and this is our memory game.
So inside the memory game, we have 12 diffs.
And each of these divs is actually a memory card.
That's why we have to have cards, right.
So let me collapse all of them.
So these Twelve's these 12 cards, they're actually Twala Fleck's items because the container is has
a has a display value of Fleck's.
So all of them, whenever we said we initialize a flux container or a flux model, all of the flexibles
properties they are at our disposal to use.
So we have a an order of property, which is a Fleck's items property.
Right.
For Fleck's items.
And the order of property basically is responsible for the order of items which are laid out on the
screen.
So naturally or by default, all of them have an order of zero.
So if you if you go towards the top left part of the screen, they are going to go to zero and less
than that or zero and negative numbers.
And if you go towards the bottom right, they're going to go towards the positive number.
So if you were to have an order of negative one for this for for example, for an that's just so if
you were to have an order of negative one for this cat, it would move from this position all the way
to here.
And if you would have an order of like, let's say position like like let's say an order of like two
for this bear or one, then it would it would move all the way to here.
So bigger numbers just ensure bigger numbers.
They move towards the bottom right.
And smaller numbers, they move towards the top left depending on whether or not they're negative or
positive.
So think of it like this so we can use this order property to come up with a way to shuffle our cards.
And for that, we need to get a random number and number and we know how we can do that.
So first off, I'm going to create a variable in which I'm going to store that random number, OK?
We need to store it somewhere.
So I'm going to call it random positions and it is going to be math dot floor.
Now, the floor method is going to give us an integer, right?
We need an integer because why do we need an integer?
The reason for that is we are going to use our math at random.
So where is our math that random are?
This is the method that we are going to use now.
Math at random is going to give us a value here.
It says, OK, it is going to give us a number between zero and one, but this is going to be a decimal
number.
We want a whole integer.
That's why we are going to say math.
That floor, it is going to give us a complete integer and we have multiplied by twelve because we have
to, of course, simple.
Now, the number that comes out of this, what do we want to do with that?
First off, let's find out what what are the numbers that is going to come out from this random positions.
So we have successfully implemented the random and we have stored inside this variable.
So now let's go ahead and let's access that variable and let's see what is the value stored inside this.
So.
If I click on it, so this is well, this is this function is not called and how how do we call this
function?
We know that whenever you create a function, this is another cool idea in JavaScript.
I'm just going to write the name here and I'm going to explain to you, guess what this means it whenever
you create a function or you define a function, you need to call it for that function to wake up and
to do something.
But we have no we have no good way of calling this function.
We want whenever the pages is reloaded, we want to call this function.
So we are going to convert this function into an iffy.
And you heard that right.
It is an F and we grab and the entire function, we open parentheses and we open parentheses at the
end of that function as well.
Now this function has turned into has been converted into an iffy and if he is an immediately invoked
function expression, it means that the function is called immediately after its definition.
Now this function is called.
So whenever you want to combine the function call sorry, the function definition, what the function
call like instantly you just create an F, it's called N.
If he immediately invoked function expression or think of it like this, immediately woken up function.
OK, so now whenever we refresh the page, we see an iffy so if I refresh, refresh the page, we see
all these numbers, see we see all these are all random numbers.
And we are going to assign all these random numbers to each of these cards.
And then the order of this court is going to change, resulting in a wonderful shuffle.
All right.
So let's reload the page.
Each time we get different numbers, each time we are going to get a different number.
We are not going to get 12 and we are not going to get minus one.
That's what we did there.
OK, so we are always going to get from zero all the way to 11, right.
So we are going to get that.
Now, now that we have successfully grabbed these random numbers for our random position, how can we
apply them to to those cards that we have?
So we are going to say card dot tap into the world of style.
And I don't know why does that style and we are going to get the order of property and we are going
to send it to, what, two random positions that set.
So that's now everything is random, OK?
And we can we can check it out for ourselves.
So this is bare.
It's there, but this is dog.
But originally these two bears there were in the same spot.
So that's incorrect.
Let's go ahead and check out this is the bird.
Check out these two.
We have a cat and we have so this the dog is right here.
So this is our first.
Now, I'm going to solve this memory game.
Of course, it is going to take some time.
But in the process of solving it, we are going to check for any corners, any issues, any bugs that
this application might have.
So let's click on this so we cannot click on a third car.
That's a good thing.
If I double click, I cannot still cannot click.
So here is the other hamster.
I think this cat is here.
This bear is here.
I think here there is the hamster.
Come on.
This is the burden up.
I think this was the bird.
Yeah.
And voila.
So now you can see we have better dog, cat, hamster.
If I refresh the page, this order should change and you can see that every card, all of the cars,
they're shuffled.
So if I change, we have cat Curis, cat, bird and dog and hamster.
If I refresh, we are going to get an again hamster refresh.
We are going to get a bird.
So each time we refresh the order, property is going to change the order of our HDMI elements or our
cards, resulting in a different deck of cards that we can work with.
So.
And this is going to be, Ed, for this project and this chapter, I hope you have enjoyed it and see
you guys in the next one.